Chunk 1: Java Basics and Data Types

    Name the (8) primitive data types.
    What is the difference between "Collection" and "Collections"?
    What is a HashMap?
    Why is a HashMap unsorted?
    Describe JVM, JDK, and JRE.
    What is a Class Loader?
    What is autoboxing?
    What does DOM stand for?
    Why is Java considered dynamic?
    What does it mean to be multithreaded?
    What are the two basic methods of creating threads in Java?
Chunk 2: Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)

    What are the 4 principles of Object-Oriented Programming?
    Explain abstraction.
    Explain polymorphism.
    Explain inheritance.
    Explain encapsulation.
    What are the 4 access modifiers and their access specifiers?
    What is the difference between an abstract class and an interface?
    For Interface and Abstract Class, why would you use one over the other?
    What is an abstract class?
    What is an abstract method?
    What is an access modifier?
    What is an instance variable?

Chunk 3: Java Collections and Comparisons

    What is the difference between Comparable and Comparator?
    What is the difference between a list and a set?
    What is a singleton?
    FIFO, LIFO, or either? (Queue, stack, deque)
    What is the difference between a queue and a deque?
    How do you pronounce 'deque'?
    Why would you use Streams?
    Why would you use an array over an arraylist and vice versa?
Chunk 4: Threading and Concurrency

    What is a thread?
    What is an advantage of Java (with its JVM) over other languages that work from the hardware?
    What are semaphores?
    What is deadlock?
    What are the two basic methods of creating threads in Java?

Chunk 5: Design Patterns and Advanced Concepts

    What are design patterns?
    What is a decorator pattern?
    What is an Observer pattern?
    What is a Factory pattern?
    What is a Command pattern?
    What is an Adapter pattern?
    What is a Facade pattern?
    What is the difference between Adapter and Facade?
    What is a template Method pattern?
    What is type erasure?
    What is serialization?
    What is deserialization?
    What are some intermediate operations of the Stream API?
    What are some terminal operations of the Stream API?
    What is Project Lombok? What are some things that it is used for?
    Breadth-first search VS Depth-first search.
    What is Dijkstra's algorithm?
    What are the differences between the different versions of Java?
    What are some potential new features that the Java developers are likely to add to the language in future updates?
    Define reflection.
    What is a lambda?
    What is a functional interface?
    List the functional interfaces and their functional methods.
    What is functional programming?
    What are the FIRST principles of TDD?
    What is the difference between composition and inheritance?
    Why might you prefer composition over inheritance?
    Why might you prefer inheritance over composition?
    What is the DRY coding principle?
    What is the WET coding principle?
